README.md, before:

MockServer
========== 

For information on how to use the MockServer please see http://www.mock-server.com/

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jamesdbloom/mockserver.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jamesdbloom/mockserver)

# Versions

### Maven Central

Maven Central contains the following MockServer artifacts:

* [mockserver-maven-plugin](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-maven-plugin) - a set of maven plugins to start, stop and fork MockServer using maven
* [mockserver-vertx](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-vertx) - a Vert.X module that mocks HTTP and HTTPS requests
* [mockserver-jetty](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-jetty) - a web server that mocks HTTP and HTTPS requests (using Embedded Jetty)
* [mockserver-jetty:jar-with-dependencies](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-jetty) - a fully stand alone web server embedded with all dependencies that mocks HTTP and HTTPS requests (using Embedded Jetty)
* [mockserver-war](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-war) - a deployable WAR for mocking HTTP and HTTP requests (that runs on any JEE web server)
* [mockserver-proxy](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-proxy) - an HTTP / HTTPS proxy that allows the recording and querying of requests and response
* [mockserver-client](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-client) - a Java and JavaScript client to communicate with both the server and the proxy

In addition MockServer SNAPSHOT artifacts can also be found on [Sonatype](https://oss.sonatype.org/index.html#nexus-search;quick~mockserver).

### Vert.X Module Registry

Vert.X Module Registry contains the following artifacts:

* [org.mock-server~mockserver-vertx~2.0](http://modulereg.vertx.io/) - a Vert.X module that mocks HTTP and HTTPS requests

Vert.X Module Registry will shortly also have the following artifacts:

* [org.mock-server~mockserver-vertx-proxy~2.0](http://modulereg.vertx.io/) - a Vert.X module that proxies HTTP and HTTPS allowing the recording and querying of requests and responses

# Issues

If you have any problems, please [check the project issues](https://github.com/jamesdbloom/mockserver/issues?state=open).

# Contributions

Pull requests are, of course, very welcome! Please read our [contributing to the project](https://github.com/jamesdbloom/mockserver/wiki/Contributing-to-the-project) guide first. Then head over to the [open issues](https://github.com/jamesdbloom/mockserver/issues?state=open) to see what we need help with. Make sure you let us know if you intend to work on something. Also, check out the [milestones](https://github.com/jamesdbloom/mockserver/issues/milestones) to see what is planned for future releases.

# Maintainers
* [James D Bloom](http://blog.jamesdbloom.com)
* [Samira Rabbanian](https://github.com/samirarabbanian)

Commit message:

Updated about move away from Travis

README.md, after:

MockServer
========== 

For information on how to use the MockServer please see http://www.mock-server.com/

**Note:** This project no longer running on Travis due to the unreliable / unrepeatable nature of integration tests running on Travis CI, unfortunately numerous tests that ran completely reliably on multiple other environments where not reliable on Travis CI

# Versions

### Maven Central

Maven Central contains the following MockServer artifacts:

* [mockserver-maven-plugin](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-maven-plugin) - a set of maven plugins to start, stop and fork MockServer using maven
* [mockserver-vertx](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-vertx) - a Vert.X module that mocks HTTP and HTTPS requests
* [mockserver-jetty](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-jetty) - a web server that mocks HTTP and HTTPS requests (using Embedded Jetty)
* [mockserver-jetty:jar-with-dependencies](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-jetty) - a fully stand alone web server embedded with all dependencies that mocks HTTP and HTTPS requests (using Embedded Jetty)
* [mockserver-war](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-war) - a deployable WAR for mocking HTTP and HTTP requests (that runs on any JEE web server)
* [mockserver-proxy](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-proxy) - an HTTP / HTTPS proxy that allows the recording and querying of requests and response
* [mockserver-client](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cmockserver-client) - a Java and JavaScript client to communicate with both the server and the proxy

In addition MockServer SNAPSHOT artifacts can also be found on [Sonatype](https://oss.sonatype.org/index.html#nexus-search;quick~mockserver).

### Vert.X Module Registry

Vert.X Module Registry contains the following artifacts:

* [org.mock-server~mockserver-vertx~2.0](http://modulereg.vertx.io/) - a Vert.X module that mocks HTTP and HTTPS requests

Vert.X Module Registry will shortly also have the following artifacts:

* [org.mock-server~mockserver-vertx-proxy~2.0](http://modulereg.vertx.io/) - a Vert.X module that proxies HTTP and HTTPS allowing the recording and querying of requests and responses

# Issues

If you have any problems, please [check the project issues](https://github.com/jamesdbloom/mockserver/issues?state=open).

# Contributions

Pull requests are, of course, very welcome! Please read our [contributing to the project](https://github.com/jamesdbloom/mockserver/wiki/Contributing-to-the-project) guide first. Then head over to the [open issues](https://github.com/jamesdbloom/mockserver/issues?state=open) to see what we need help with. Make sure you let us know if you intend to work on something. Also, check out the [milestones](https://github.com/jamesdbloom/mockserver/issues/milestones) to see what is planned for future releases.

# Maintainers
* [James D Bloom](http://blog.jamesdbloom.com)
* [Samira Rabbanian](https://github.com/samirarabbanian)
